Title: 5 star fakes. The Fake Review’s on Amazon
Subtitle: How I made almost $500 writing fake reviews on Amazon
By: Ethan Breckenridge
	I get home, and there is a packages waiting for me. The Amazon logo plastered all over it. I open it, take a few pictures of the phone case, and leave a review. I send a couple messages, and after a few minutes I get a notification that $6 had been sent to me, through PayPal. I confirm the trade with the seller. All within a span of 10-15 minutes, I got a free phone case, and $4, just for leaving a review on amazon. 
	It was that easy for most of the 60 products I left fake reviews on amazon. 15 minutes, and the money to make the initial purchase, and they would refund me when the product shipped, and pay me $2-6, depending on the seller. I spend almost $480, and made about $600, just reviewing products, until Amazon removed my account. I never knew about the fake review groups, until I saw a post of a community on Reddit, for cheap labor. After I did two reviews in that community, sellers started reaching out to me, and inviting me to groups they had set up for reviews. 
	I started in late 2016, because it was an easy way to make money, especially since I couldn’t get a job as a 15 year old. I had around $60 in my account when I started doing it, so I started small, with a dog collar, and a car charger for iPhone’s. Spending small amounts like $10-20 on products, and making that back, with around $4 per review left. I made about $50-60 from that, along side some other small jobs. It was enough for 15 year old me, but I wanted more. 
	So when I joined my Amazon review group, I started doing larger and larger purchases, $50 here, $100 there, on supplements, battery packs, and smart plugs. Within about 2 months of joining the group, I set up a spreadsheet to track the information for each order. Order ID, Tracking Number, Review status, refund status, all the important metrics for tracking what I was getting, and when I had to leave the reviews. I made another $40 in this period, as the price per review went down in the group. A lot of what I reviewed during this period was supplements, weighted workout vests, and dog collars. About 2 months after that, amazon contacted me, saying they detected fraud with my account, and were deactivating my review status. 
	Cutting my review status meant I couldn’t make money ordering products anymore, unless I created a separate account, and got a P/O box, but I wasn’t making enough for that to be viable. So I switched to a management role in my Amazon Fake review community. I had been in the Amazon review group since the beginning, so I was able to talk to the founder of the group, and become a “Manager”. There were 3 managers, and the founder himself, and most of their work was talking to sellers, and getting products to review. However, the server had gotten to the point where there were 10 products being reviewed by various people in the 70 person group. In the group, a fair bit of the reviews were written by sellers. 
	So when I joined management, the owner put me to work tracking the group status for all the reviews. I became the accountant or project manager. The 4 other management level people for our group found products to review, and when they did,  they would tell me what seller they got, the products they wanted reviews on, and the number of reviews they needed, and it was my job to track who was doing what review in our group, and what stage they were on, product wise. Since we were such a large group, we were able to get $6 per person, per review. The manager that got the product got $2, the founder got $1, and I got $1 per review, with the last $2 going to the actual reviewer. I did product tracking for 20 products, with each seller wanting around 15 reviews per product. For all the products I had a hand in managing, $15,496 changed hands between sellers, management level staff, and ordinary reviewers. I made around $300 for managing the reviews. And that was only for the 3 months, I remained manager. However, as more and more reviewers got caught, and had their amazon accounts deactivated, there wasn’t work for me, as the work load dropped. So the other managers took over what I was doing, and used the spreadsheet I was using. 
	We were a smaller group though. I was invited to a larger 150 person group recently, that is doing pretty well. Based on the last few months of transactions, I estimate between $50k - $60k has changed hands. 
	For those that are looking to buy a product on Amazon, there are various websites that estimate how real vs fake reviews are on a product. Sites like ReviewMeta, and FakeSpot are what I use when I’m buying products on Amazon. 
	We are not endorsed by Amazon, ReviewMeta, or FakeSpot. Nor do I recommend breaking of any laws in your country or state or breaking the terms of service of any website, such as Amazon, Discord, or Slack. 
